# Lab 8: Thought Questions

 1. Run several simulations of both types of queues. Which queue strategy seems to process all the customers fastest? (_Note: For your simulations to be meaningful, they should represent a realistic situation. Customers should not overwhelm the tellers, and tellers should not be completely idle. When answering this thought question, give and justify the parameters you chose for your simulation._)
  * The one queue strategy processes all of its customers faster than the multiple queue strategy does. For instance, in a simulation where the number of customers is 100, the number of service points is 15, the maximum arrival time is 25, and the seed is 11, the one queue strategy manages to finish serving all customers in a time of 133 while the multiple queue strategy finishes serving the same customers in a time of 153. In simulations with other parameter values, a similar result occurs where the one queue simulation runs faster than the multiple queue simulation, though the parameter values for this particular simulation were chosen (100 customers being served by 15 service points, with the latest arrival time of 25 and seed of 11) because it represented a fairly realistic situation and illustrated a decent time difference between the two queue strategies.

 2. Is there a difference between the average wait time for customers between the two techniques? (_A Customer's wait time is the difference between the time that a Customer appears in the simulation and the time that the Customer first begins receiving service from a teller. The wait time should not include the time that a Customer is actively receiving service._) Give the intuition for your results.
  * The average wait time for customers between the two techniques did differ - with the one queue simulation having a smaller wait time - though not by much. In a simulation where the number of customers is 100, the number of service points is 15, the maximum arrival time is 25, and the seed is 11, the one queue simulation produced an average wait time of 35.63, while the multiple queue simulation produced an average wait time of 35.77. This is a reasonable result to expect because there are so many customers being run with random service time amounts that the average difference in wait times should not be very different.

 3. Suppose you simulated the ability to jump between lines in a multiple line simulation. When a line has two or more customers than another line, customers move from the end of one line to another until the lines are fairly even. You see this behavior frequently at grocery stores. Does this change the type of underlying structure you use to keep customers in line?
  * No, this added ability to switch lines would not change the type of underlying structure in the code because a PriorityQueue and a vector of queues of customers would still be used to represent the multiple line situation. The only thing that would change would be to add a check that runs during every time step that switches customers already in a line to a different queue if it has become shorter than the one it is currently in.

 4. Suppose lines were dedicated to serving customers of varying lengths of service times. Would this improve the average wait time for a customer? If yes, how? If not, why not?
  * This would improve the average wait time of a customer in a multi queue simulation because customers with similar service time amounts would be able to be grouped together. This would eliminate the situation in which a customer with a short service time is stuck behind another customer with an unusually long service time. This inefficiency would be removed, and thus the average wait time for all customers would decrease. However, it would not improve the average wait time for a customer in a single queue simulation because since some queues are dedicated only to certain service time amounts, there could be customers in line who need to be served and tellers who have no customers but would not be able to serve the customers in line. This would cause a greater inefficiency as not all tellers are being used and customers have no choice but to wait until the queue that they can go to opens up.
